# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Defined types

* [`createrepo`](#createrepo): Creates and maintains a yum repository.

## Defined types

### <a name="createrepo"></a>`createrepo`

Manages a repository root directory, installs the `createrepo` (or
`createrepo_c`) package, renders a metadata-update script and optionally
schedules updates via cron and/or runs them during the Puppet agent run.

This define does not manage the directory tree above `$repository_dir`
and does not manage an HTTP server.

#### Examples

##### Basic usage

```puppet
createrepo { 'yumrepo':
  repository_dir => '/var/yumrepos/yumrepo',
  repo_cache_dir => '/var/cache/yumrepos/yumrepo',
}
```

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `createrepo` defined type:

* [`repository_dir`](#-createrepo--repository_dir)
* [`repo_cache_dir`](#-createrepo--repo_cache_dir)
* [`repo_owner`](#-createrepo--repo_owner)
* [`repo_group`](#-createrepo--repo_group)
* [`repo_mode`](#-createrepo--repo_mode)
* [`repo_recurse`](#-createrepo--repo_recurse)
* [`repo_ignore`](#-createrepo--repo_ignore)
* [`repo_seltype`](#-createrepo--repo_seltype)
* [`enable_cron`](#-createrepo--enable_cron)
* [`enable_update`](#-createrepo--enable_update)
* [`cron_minute`](#-createrepo--cron_minute)
* [`cron_hour`](#-createrepo--cron_hour)
* [`cron_weekday`](#-createrepo--cron_weekday)
* [`changelog_limit`](#-createrepo--changelog_limit)
* [`checksum_type`](#-createrepo--checksum_type)
* [`update_file_path`](#-createrepo--update_file_path)
* [`suppress_cron_stdout`](#-createrepo--suppress_cron_stdout)
* [`suppress_cron_stderr`](#-createrepo--suppress_cron_stderr)
* [`groupfile`](#-createrepo--groupfile)
* [`workers`](#-createrepo--workers)
* [`timeout`](#-createrepo--timeout)
* [`manage_repo_dirs`](#-createrepo--manage_repo_dirs)
* [`cleanup`](#-createrepo--cleanup)
* [`cleanup_keep`](#-createrepo--cleanup_keep)
* [`use_lockfile`](#-createrepo--use_lockfile)
* [`lockfile`](#-createrepo--lockfile)
* [`createrepo_package`](#-createrepo--createrepo_package)
* [`createrepo_cmd`](#-createrepo--createrepo_cmd)

##### <a name="-createrepo--repository_dir"></a>`repository_dir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

The path to the base directory of the repository. Here, or in
subdirectories, you store the .rpm files.

Default value: `"/var/yumrepos/${name}"`

##### <a name="-createrepo--repo_cache_dir"></a>`repo_cache_dir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path to a checksum directory. Makes updates to the repository faster.

Default value: `"/var/cache/yumrepos/${name}"`

##### <a name="-createrepo--repo_owner"></a>`repo_owner`

Data type: `String[1]`

Owner of the repository directory.

Default value: `'root'`

##### <a name="-createrepo--repo_group"></a>`repo_group`

Data type: `String[1]`

Group of the repository directory.

Default value: `'root'`

##### <a name="-createrepo--repo_mode"></a>`repo_mode`

Data type: `Stdlib::Filemode`

Mode of the repository directory.

Default value: `'0775'`

##### <a name="-createrepo--repo_recurse"></a>`repo_recurse`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enable recursive management of the repository directory.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-createrepo--repo_ignore"></a>`repo_ignore`

Data type: `Optional[Array[String[1]]]`

Ignore-list for recursive management of the repository directory.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-createrepo--repo_seltype"></a>`repo_seltype`

Data type: `String[1]`

SELinux type for the repository directory.

Default value: `'httpd_sys_content_t'`

##### <a name="-createrepo--enable_cron"></a>`enable_cron`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enable automatic repository updates via cron.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-createrepo--enable_update"></a>`enable_update`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enable automatic repository updates during the Puppet run.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-createrepo--cron_minute"></a>`cron_minute`

Data type: `String[1]`

Minute parameter for cron metadata update job.

Default value: `'*/10'`

##### <a name="-createrepo--cron_hour"></a>`cron_hour`

Data type: `String[1]`

Hour parameter for cron metadata update job.

Default value: `'*'`

##### <a name="-createrepo--cron_weekday"></a>`cron_weekday`

Data type: `String[1]`

Weekday parameter for cron metadata update job.

Default value: `'*'`

##### <a name="-createrepo--changelog_limit"></a>`changelog_limit`

Data type: `Integer[0]`

Import only last N changelog entries from rpm into metadata.
(RedHat-family only.)

Default value: `5`

##### <a name="-createrepo--checksum_type"></a>`checksum_type`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

For compatibility with older versions of yum. (RedHat-family only.)

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-createrepo--update_file_path"></a>`update_file_path`

Data type: `Optional[Stdlib::Absolutepath]`

Location of repo update script. If `undef`, defaults to
`/usr/local/bin/createrepo-update-<sanitized-name>`.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-createrepo--suppress_cron_stdout"></a>`suppress_cron_stdout`

Data type: `Boolean`

Redirect stdout output from cron to /dev/null.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-createrepo--suppress_cron_stderr"></a>`suppress_cron_stderr`

Data type: `Boolean`

Redirect stderr output from cron to /dev/null.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-createrepo--groupfile"></a>`groupfile`

Data type: `Optional[String[1]]`

Provide a groupfile, e.g. comps.xml.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-createrepo--workers"></a>`workers`

Data type: `Optional[Integer[1]]`

Number of workers to spawn to read RPMs.

Default value: `undef`

##### <a name="-createrepo--timeout"></a>`timeout`

Data type: `Integer[0]`

Exec timeout for createrepo commands, in seconds.

Default value: `300`

##### <a name="-createrepo--manage_repo_dirs"></a>`manage_repo_dirs`

Data type: `Boolean`

Manage the repository and cache directories. When `false`, both
directories must be created out-of-band.

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-createrepo--cleanup"></a>`cleanup`

Data type: `Boolean`

When `true`, the update script removes old rpm versions for each rpm.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-createrepo--cleanup_keep"></a>`cleanup_keep`

Data type: `Integer[0]`

How many versions of each rpm to keep when `cleanup` is `true`.

Default value: `2`

##### <a name="-createrepo--use_lockfile"></a>`use_lockfile`

Data type: `Boolean`

Prevent corruption of the repodata when multiple createrepo
processes start building metadata at the same time.

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-createrepo--lockfile"></a>`lockfile`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Full path of the lockfile used when `use_lockfile` is `true`.

Default value: `"/tmp/createrepo-update-${name}.lock"`

##### <a name="-createrepo--createrepo_package"></a>`createrepo_package`

Data type: `String[1]`

Package providing the createrepo binary. Set to `createrepo_c` to use
the C implementation.

Default value: `'createrepo'`

##### <a name="-createrepo--createrepo_cmd"></a>`createrepo_cmd`

Data type: `Stdlib::Absolutepath`

Path of the createrepo binary to invoke. Must be kept in sync with
`$createrepo_package` by the caller.

Default value: `'/usr/bin/createrepo'`

